# Building Fritzing Components

Here are some notes on my experience building a part for Fritzing.

## The SVG header

In his [series on building a Fritzing part][TEESVG], Bertrand Le Roy points out the more valuable header fields:

    <svg width="9.53mm"
        height="9.53mm"
        viewBox="0 0 953 953"
        id="TSR3386U-T_Breadboard"
        version="1.1"
        xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"
        xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">

 - The height and width give the physical dimensions of the part
 - The viewBox maps from height and width to drawing coordinates

*If you do not have the width and height fields, Fritzing will complain that it can't parse the SVG*. So if you get the error, "Error reading file …: unable to create renderer for svg …" then here's one possible explanation. In my experience, [Jitters][APPJIT] would not save this attribute, so I'd have to go in and edit by hand.

Whichever units you use, it helps to set the viewbox to a factor of ten or hundred of those dimensions. In the example above, 9.53mm is scaled to 953 viewBox units.

## Have a Photograph or Data Sheet

Ideally, you'll be able to start with a photograph or datasheet to start dimensioning your Fritzing part from. For the breadboard component, you will find that you have to fiddle the part to suit the world of Fritzing. Parts are placed oddly on different breadboards, it appears that Fritzing simply uses the "top left" corner of the graphic to position the part, rather than the "top left" terminal.

## Start with the outline first

The first things to get right are the outline and the two most distant pins. For example if you are producing a component that comes in an 8-pin DIL package, getting the positioning of pins 1 and 5 will be quite useful.

Work towards the details later: add the rest of the pins, then look at the distinctive features of the component.

## Fritzing Quirks

Use two or three breadboards to test your part. Some breadboards are different sizes, so a part that fits on the standard breadboard might not fit on the "half breadboard" component.

Never move or change connected parts. When testing against multiple breadboards, have multiple breadboards in your breadboard view. Do not change the style of one breadboard: weird stuff happens and you end up with a breadboard that no IC will fit on. Similarly, move the component off the breadboard it was connected to before placing it on another.

## Jitters Quirks

[Jitters][APPJIT] is a competent SVG editor which makes preparing SVGs a breeze. One flaw is that it doesn't support the "__height__" and "__width__" attributes for the SVG tag. If those attributes are present, they will be stripped when saving the SVG. To restore or set the height and width you'll need to edit the SVG by hand.

## References

 - Bertrand Le Roy, "[Authoring SVG with a text editor][TEESVG]," 2011-08-07
 - Bertrand Le Roy, "[Building a simple Fritzing component][TEEFRITZ]," 2011-08-09

[TEESVG]: http://weblogs.asp.net/bleroy/authoring-svg-with-a-text-editor "Tales from the Evil Empire — Authoring SVG with a text editor"
[TEEFRITZ]: http://weblogs.asp.net/bleroy/building-a-simple-fritzing-component "Tales from the Evil Empire — Building a simple Fritzing component"
[APPJIT]: https://itunes.apple.com/au/app/jitters/id567337474?mt=12 "Jitters on the App Store"
